{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red217\green11\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;\red85\green142\blue40;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa420

\f0\b\fs64 \cf0 \'a0Actions Passed to An Image Effect\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\fs48 \cf0 \
The Generic Load Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 kOfxActionLoad
\f0\fs32  is the first action passed to a plug-in after the binary containing the plug-in has been loaded. It is there to allow a plug-in to create any global data structures it may need and is also when the plug-in should fetch suites from the host.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Unload Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 kOfxActionUnload is the last action passed to the plug-in before the binary containing the plug-in is unloaded. It is there to allow a plug-in to destroy any global data structures it may have created.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Describe Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The kOfxActionDescribe is the second action passed to a plug-in. It is where a plugin defines how it behaves and the resources it needs to function.\
Note that the handle passed in acts as a descriptor for, rather than an instance of the plugin. The handle is global and unique. The plug-in is at liberty to cache the handle away for future reference until the plug-in is unloaded.\
Most importantly, the effect must set what image effect contexts it is capable of working in.\
This action 
\i must
\i0  be trapped, it is not optional.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Create Instance Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The kOfxActionCreateInstance is the first action passed to a plug-in's instance after its creation. It is there to allow a plugin to create any per-instance data structures it may need.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Destroy Instance Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is the last passed to a plug-in's instance before its destruction. It is there to allow a plugin to destroy any per-instance data structures it may have created.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Begin/End Instance Changed Actions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 kOfxActionBeginInstanceChanged
\f0\fs32  and 
\f1\fs26 kOfxActionEndInstanceChanged
\f0\fs32  are used to bracket all 
\f1\fs26 kOfxActionInstanceChanged
\f0\fs32  actions, whether a single change or multiple changes. Some changes to a plugin instance can be grouped logically (eg: a 'reset all' button resetting all the instance's parameters), the begin/end instance changed actions allow a plugin to respond appropriately to a large set of changes. For example, a plugin that maintains a complex internal state can delay any changes to that state until all parameter changes have completed.\
\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Instance Changed Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action signals that something has changed in a plugin's instance, either by user action, the host or the plugin itself. All change actions are bracketed by a pair of kOfxActionBeginInstanceChanged and kOfxActionEndInstanceChanged actions. The 
\f1\fs26 inArgs
\f0\fs32  property set is used to determine what was the thing inside the instance that was changed.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Purge Caches Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The kOfxActionPurgeCaches is an action that may be passed to a plug-in instance from time to time in low memory situations. Instances recieving this action should destroy any data structures they may have and release the associated memory, they can later reconstruct this from the effect's parameter set and associated information.\
For Image Effects, it is generally a bad idea to call this after each render, but rather it should be called after 
\f1\fs26 \cf3 kOfxImageEffectActionEndSequenceRender
\f0\fs32 \cf0 . Some effects, typically those flagged with the \cf3 \ul \ulc3 kOfxImageEffectInstancePropSequentialRender\cf0 \ulnone  property, may need to cache information from previously rendered frames to function correctly, or have data structures that are expensive to reconstruct at each frame (eg: a particle system). Ideally, such effect should free such structures during the 
\f1\fs26 kOfxImageEffectActionEndSequenceRender
\f0\fs32  action.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b\fs48 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380
\cf0 The Sync Private Data Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is called when a plugin should synchronise any private data structures to its parameter set. This generally occurs when an effect is about to be saved or copied, but it could occur in other situations as well.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic Begin Instance Edit Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This is called when an instance is 
\i first
\i0  actively edited by a user, ie: and interface is open and parameter values and input clips can be modified. It is there so that effects can create private user interface structures when necassary. Note that some hosts can have multiple editors open on the same effect instance simulateously.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Generic End Instance Edit Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This is called when the 
\i last
\i0  user interface on an instance closed. It is there so that effects can destroy private user interface structures when necassary. Note that some hosts can have multiple editors open on the same effect instance simulateously, this will only be called when the last of those editors are closed.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Describe In Context Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is unique to OFX Image Effect plug-ins. Because a plugin is able to exhibit different behaviour depending on the context of use, each separate context will need to be described individually. It is within this action that image effects describe which parameters and input clips it requires.\
This action will be called multiple times, one for each of the contexts the plugin says it is capable of implementing. If a host does not support a certain context, then it need not call 
\f1\fs26 kOfxImageEffectActionDescribeInContext
\f0\fs32  for that context.\
This action 
\i must
\i0  be trapped, it is not optional.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Get Region of Definition Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The region of definition for an image effect is the rectangular section of the 2D image plane that it is capable of filling, given the state of its input clips and parameters. This action is used to calculate the RoD for a plugin instance at a given frame. For more details on regions of definition see \cf3 \ul Image Effect Architectures\cf0 \ulnone .\
Note that hosts that have constant sized imagery need not call this action, only hosts that allow image sizes to vary need call this.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Get Regions Of Interest Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action allows a host to ask an effect, given a region I want to render, what region do you need from each of your input clips. In that way, depending on the host architecture, a host can fetch the minimal amount of the image needed as input. Note that there is a region of interest to be set in 
\f1\fs26 outArgs
\f0\fs32  for each input clip that exists on the effect. Form more details see \cf3 \ul Image Effect Architectures\cf0 \ulnone .\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Get Frames Needed Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action lets the host ask the effect what frames are needed from each input clip to process a given frame. For example a temporal based degrainer may need several frames around the frame to render to do its work.\
This action need only ever be called if the plugin has set the 
\f1\fs26 \cf3 kOfxImageEffectPropTemporalClipAccessg
\f0\fs32 \cf0  property on the plugin descriptor to be true. Otherwise the host assumes that the only frame needed from the inputs is the current one and this acion is not called.\
\cf4 UNSUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Is Identity Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 Sometimes an effect can pass through an input uprocessed, for example a blur effect with a blur size of 0. This action can be called by a host before it attempts to render an effect to determine if it can simply copy input directly to output without having to call the render action on the effect.\
If the effect does not need to process any pixels, it should set the value of the 
\f1\fs26 kOfxPropName
\f0\fs32  to the clip that the host should us as the output instead, and the 
\f1\fs26 kOfxPropTime
\f0\fs32  property on 
\f1\fs26 outArgs
\f0\fs32  to be the time at which the frame should be fetched from a clip.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Render Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is where an effect gets to push pixels and turn its input clips and parameter set into an output image. This is possibly quite complicated and covered in the \cf3 \ul Rendering Image Effects\cf0 \ulnone  chapter.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Begin Sequence Render Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is passed to an image effect before it renders a range of frames. It is there to allow an effect to set things up for a long sequence of frames. Note that this is still called, even if only a single frame is being rendered in an interactive environment.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The End Sequence Render Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is passed to an image effect after is has rendered a range of frames. It is there to allow an effect to free resources after a long sequence of frame renders. Note that this is still called, even if only a single frame is being rendered in an interactive environment.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Get Clip Preferences Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action allows a plugin to dynamically specify its preferences for input and output clips. Please see \cf3 \ul Image Effect Clip Preferences\cf0 \ulnone  for more details on the behaviour. Clip preferences are constant for the duration of an effect, so this action need only be called once per clip, not once per frame.\
This should be called once after creation of an instance, each time an input clip is changed, and whenever a parameter named in the 
\f1\fs26 \cf3 kOfxImageEffectPropClipPreferencesSlaveParam
\f0\fs32 \cf0  has its value changed.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Get Time Domain Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action allows a host to ask an effect what range of frames it can produce images over. Only effects instantiated in the \cf3 \ul General Context\cf0 \ulnone can have this called on them. In all other the host is in strict control over the temporal duration of the effect.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa420

\b\fs64 \cf0 Actions Passed to an Interact\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\fs48 \cf0 The Describe Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The kOfxActionDescribe is the first action passed to an interact. It is where an interact defines how it behaves and the resources it needs to function.\
Note that the handle passed in acts as a descriptor for, rather than an instance of the interact.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Create Instance Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 The 
\f1\fs26 \cf3 kOfxActionCreateInstance
\f0\fs32 \cf0  is the first action passed to an interact instance after its creation. It is there to allow a plugin to create any per-instance data structures it may need.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Destroy Instance Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is the last passed to an interact's instance before its destruction. It is there to allow a plugin to destroy any per-instance data structures it may have created.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 The Draw Action\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued to an interact whenever the host needs the plugin to redraw the given interact. The interact should issue any openGL calls it needs at this point.\
Note that the interact may (in the case of custom parameter GUIS) or may not (in the case of image effect overlays) be required to swap buffers, that is up to the kind of interact.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionPenMotion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued whenever the pen moves an the interact's has focus. It should be issued whether the pen is currently up or down.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionPenDown\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when a pen transitions for the 'up' to the 'down' state.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionPenUp\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when a pen transitions for the 'down' to the 'up' state.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionKeyDown\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when a key on the keyboard is depressed.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionKeyUp\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when a key on the keyboard is released.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionKeyRepeat\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when a key on the keyboard is held down an a key repeat is issued.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionGainFocus\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when an interact gains input focus.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380

\b\fs48 \cf0 kOfxInteractActionLoseFocus\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320

\b0\fs32 \cf0 This action is issued when an interact loses input focus.\
No openGL calls should be issued by the plug-in during this action.\
\cf2 SUPPORTED}